Introduction to Information Security
LAB 2

Contents:
S.No.	Title	Page. No
1	Task 1: Frequency Analysis	3
2	Task 2: Encryption using Different Ciphers and Modes	3
3	Task 3: Encryption Mode – ECB vs. CBC	5
4	Task 4: Padding	6
5	Task 5: Error Propagation – Corrupted Cipher Text	7
6	Task 6.1: Uniqueness of the IV	8
7	Task 6.2: Common Mistake: Use the Same IV	9
8	Task 6.3: Common Mistake: Use a Predictable IV	10

Task 1: Frequency Analysis
I first checked for maximum occurring three letter words and substituted them for ‘The’ & ‘And’ and went on filling for rest of them. I also noticed that it was easy to predict words if at least two or three letters were known. 


Task 2: Encryption using Different Ciphers and Modes
Output with CBC 
I used the sentence “Does INFOSEC mean infromation security?” encoded it using the given key and iv  
Hexa devimal output with -bf-cbc 
Output with des-ede-cbc 
Hexadecimal output with   -aes-128-cfb  
Observation: Different ciphertypes produce different cip[her text pf different lengths and characters. 


Task 3: Encryption Mode – ECB vs. CBC  
The one on the left is output with CBC whereas the right is ECB. It can be observed that CBC is slightly better.
This is my picture on the left and CBC encryption on the right. We can’t make out shapes or even an outline of the main image form the encrypted one. 


Task 4: Padding
From the highlighted blue circles, we can say that both cbc and ecb has size of 16 whereas cfb and ofb has size of 5, so no padding is needed in cfb and ofb as they are stream ciphers while padding is done in cbc and ecb as they are block ciphers. 


Task 5: Error Propagation – Corrupted Cipher Text
Prediction before experiment: I think after the corruption, OFC should be able to retain everything while in the other three, all information will be lost.
Information retained after ofb: Everything
Information retained after cfb: Everything until the bit that was corrupted.  
Information retained after cbc: None
Information retained after ecb: None
 

Task 6.1. Uniqueness of the IV
Encrypting 2 files with the same Key and IV and changing the third IV
Observation: Same IVs produce same encryption. Hence IVs should be changed and shouldn’t be predictable.


Task 6.2. Common Mistake: Use the Same IV
P2 can be completely revealed with the given information.


Task 6.3. Common Mistake: Use a Predictable IV
I started out with the assumption that the message is ‘yes’ then I did XOR of all the known Hex values. If the resultant is the same then the message was yes. If it doesn’t match, then it’s no,
Luckily, it was yes and it worked.
The first few bits match exactly to the cipher text of P1, which confirms that the message was yes.
